[Music]
hey kids animal test subjects have
always been an important facet of
science since they allow us to study
physiology in more destructive ways than
we could get away with on humans so she
come as no surprise that over the years
there's been a lot of creatures
haphazardly thrown at the Kosmos against
their will here's a bunch of smelly
animals that achieved more in their
short lives than you ever will
quick disclaimer this is by no means a
comprehensive list not even close we'd
be here all day if it was more so just a
highlight reel the ones I found the most
interesting so the great zoo in the sky
was first founded in 1947 when the u.s.
launched a craft containing a bunch of
fruit fly 68 miles into the air in order
to see what kind of horrible mutants
would get made from all the cosmic
radiation up there unfortunately they
are totally fine so the earth was like a
living things can go into space and not
die instantly supple and the next year
they decided to send up a rhesus macaque
named Albert which it seems kind of like
jumping the gun to go from barely alive
specs to basically a person in one step
if it were me I would have thrown like a
frog or a gerbil in between there but
whatever I'm no cosmopolitan anyway
Albert died of suffocation on the way up
and never really made it to space alive
fun fact this rocket was actually a v2
missile stolen from the Germans after
World War two so just in case any of you
have any sympathy for those Nazi
characters they're technically
responsible for the death of a poor
innocent space monkey pretty condemning
if he asked me but I guess the u.s. felt
pretty bad about it so they decided to
deal with their grief by naming the next
monkey Albert - pretty unhealthy coping
mechanism according to my shrink but she
also thinks punk is dead so was she now
this Albert actually made it into space
alive through a grand effort
incorporating all the incredible
cutting-edge technology that the atomic
era had to offer and after all that they
goofed on the parachute so Albert too
turned into a fine red mist on impact
which just goes to prove the age-old
adage you can lead a monkey to space but
you can't make him land there are a few
more Albert's after this
Albert three [__] exploded Albert 4
made it up but he had another
tissue-paper parachute what don't work
for heck so he's out albert 5 yet again
bad chute liquefied on impact until
finally in 1951 on albert number
they figured out how to make a big
blanket that consistently makes you not
immediately die when you fall from the
sky and the monkey was recovering alive
from the capsule alongside his eleven
mouse roommates of course he died two
hours later but a still counts earlier
that same year Russia launched two
little pup NYX named Siegen and dizzy
both of whom came back unharmed these
two were the first vertebrates to ever
leave Earth and come back alive then in
57 the red snagged another achievement
by putting the first living thing into
orbit
besides the bacteria clinging to Sputnik
one but their losers we don't talk about
them specifically they launched one
brave and daring dog from the streets of
Moscow probably the most famous animal
that ever go into space you know its
name well that dog is of course Air Bud
unlike those other guys we talked about
like it was never planned to be
recovered intact since we barely knew
how to put something into orbit by this
time let alone bring it back but they
still wanted to make sure she stayed
alive long enough to at least reach
space so before the mission they put her
through the most rigorous k9 space camp
that Russia had to offer throwing her in
a centrifuge for a while to get her used
to g-force making her cage progressively
smaller to get her used to cramped
spaces which made her just not [__]
anymore at all but that's a different
story
they also switched her diet to a special
high nutrition gel that she would have
eaten after takeoff you know had her
brain not crapped out from overheating
within the first few hours in 59 the
u.s. strapped two monkeys to the nose
cone of a Jupiter missile and actually
got him back alive afterwards which is
crazy mostly because these things
withstood thirty-eight G's of
acceleration for context that's the
force that makes even trained pilots
lose consciousness times four or this
thing times 12 or roughly the same
forced experience when you realize
that's not a normal speed bump but one
of those evil tiny ones that ruin your
life you know the ones well that's what
you get for do with 25 neuro Hospital
Sam well hey good thing I'm already here
considering the ballistics test that
just went down between the roof of my
car my fricking skull Jesus
so in 61 we graduated from monkeys to
great apes
sending up a chimpanzee named ham
remember space chimps yeah it was that
frame for frame andy samberg and all
what's special about ham is that he was
actually trained to pull levers and slap
buttons while up in the ship being
rewarded banana pellets for completing
tasks and getting his feet tased
whenever he messed up sounds like a
cartoon
I know I promises for real meanwhile the
Soviets were busy putting a big bald
smart ape in orbit no big deal
France saw the US and Russia is sending
up monkeys and dogs that felt left out
so in 63 they launched a cat into space
and were like yeah that's cool and
unique I'm one of the popular kids now
in 68 the Soviets saw the rabbit making
rice cakes on the moon and said hmm how
about a tortoise for that hare launching
two of them into deep space all the way
around the moon and back to earth where
they were covered alive after their
capsule landed in the ocean kind of
cheating when you are your own crash
suit but an impressive feat regardless
and 73 would put mummy chocks in space
what's the mummy chog it's one of these
things like a fish but real
rough-and-tumble tolerates low oxygen
weird pressure high salinity
dishwasher-safe Energy Star rated you
name it sister at first they could only
swim in circles but after a couple weeks
they actually adapted to zero-g and
figured out how to maneuver properly
even more interesting we also brought
mummy chog eggs and when these hatched
though a little mummy chocolates knew
how to swim in zero-g immediately kind
of spooky honestly that same mission
also sent up some spiders who managed to
spend some webs trash webs mind you but
hey they managed and 78 The Muppet Show
aired pigs in space for the first time
in 85 we cut off the arms of a bunch of
newts and sent them up to see if they
grow back the same way the reasoning
behind this being if a new can't grow
stuff back then an astronaut with a
paper cut probably can't either
fortunately they rearm themselves at the
normal race all it's good on that front
around the same time NASA actually had
talks with Sesame Street about sending
Big Bird up on the space shuttle as a
publicity stunt this is real the plan
ultimately fell through after they
realized Big Bird is [__] giant and
unwieldly at all times literally the
worst possible choice for a celebrity
cameo on a space shuttle so instead they
sent a schoolteacher in his place and
then the Challenger [__] exploded let
me reiterate there is a timeline not too
far from this one where her Big Bird is
a casualty in the single worst
astronautical disaster in history a tiny
evil part of me almost wishes that
happen like that's just so indescribably
absurd in the early 90s we set up some
baby jellyfish to grow up in space just
for last they figured out how to
maneuver just fine but when we brought
him back down they literally didn't have
a concept of gravity and couldn't orient
themselves properly in their new
environment which being a jellyfish is
the easiest thing there is you just kind
of exist
- maybe squirm a little now and then so
when you manage to somehow mess that up
you know things have gone seriously
wrong in 2003 the u.s. sent up a bunch
of invertebrates including silkworm
spiders carpenter bees and harvester
ants whoops they exploded and as seven
some tardigrades went up totally exposed
to the vacuum of space for ten days
which surprise surprise they were fine
on that same mission a cockroach gave
birth creating the first organism that
we know of to ever have been conceived
outside of Earth and finally in 2018
Elon Musk sent a big basket of mice to
the International Space Station just you
know because he can so those are just a
handful of God's creatures who got to
experience the majesty of not knowing up
from down if you're like me you're
probably a little jealous why does an
ugly ape get to go into space but I
don't I wish to bear witness to the
music of the spheres firsthand in a way
that a lower creature could never
appreciate you know why you feel like
that because you're a nerd and what
better way to fill that space shaped
space in your shriveled nerd heart than
a vast collection of high-quality
documentaries that's why you need a try
curiosity stream curiosity's stream was
founded by the dude behind the Discovery
Channel and it's an absolute treasure
trove if you're soman like me who feeds
off useless knowledge like a loach
sucking algae off a fish tank and with
over 2,400 titles a lot of which are
curiosity stream exclusives it'll be
hard not to find something that
interests you I personally recommend
deep ocean the lost world of the Pacific
there's some freaky things down there
like basically aliens the whole thing is
just one massive trip you can get
unlimited access to their full library
for just $2.99 a month I know it's a
cliche but that's literally less than a
cup of Starbucks coffee a month also you
can get your first 30 days completely
free if you sign up at curiosity stream
calm slash Salmonella and use promo code
Salmonella during the signup process
anyway that's all for today
until next time I have Salmonella and I
still don't know it lick my is
you